Brushes are one of
the most important tools
a painter will purchase.
You want to
make the most of your tools
by taking proper care of them.
Some general
rules to follow are:
Use separate brushes
for water-based
and oil-based media;
Never leave your brushes
sitting in a water
or a solvent;
Don't scrub harshly
and make sure to
clean your brushes thoroughly
after each
painting session.
This is especially important
when using acrylics
which dry quickly.
Here are some tips for
cleaning your brushes.
Wipe your brushes clean
with a cloth first,
getting as much of
the paint out as possible,
and then if you're
working with oil
you'll use a turpentine
or mineral spirit
to work out
the remainder of the paint.
For acrylics,
you'll just use water
to rinse out as much of
the colour as possible.
Then using a mild soap
and lukewarm water,
lather the brush,
and then I'm just going to
work the soap down
all the way
to the ferrule.
Just applying
a gentle pressure,
making sure I get
everything out of the base,
from the base to the tip,
and then you're
just going to rinse.
And repeat this process
as many times as possible
until you get all of the
colour out of your brush.
Keep in mind that certain
pigments will stain
the bristles or filaments,
and this isn't
a problem as long as
there isn't any actual
paint left in the brush.
Then you're going to
squeeze out any of
the excess water,
and then reshape your bristles
with your hands
to get them back
in the original shape.
When drying your brushes,
lay them flat
to prevent water from
damaging the ferrules
and the lacquer
and to help the bristles
maintain their shape.
Once your brushes are dry
you can place them in
an upright holder
with the bristles
facing up.
Your brushes will last
much longer
if you just take a few minutes
after each painting session
to take good care of them.
Captioned by GigEcast
www.gigecast.com